# FTL Modding information

## What is this?

While a lot of information about modding for FTL is available, the sources for that information tend to be scattered across many different places, further complicated by the differences introduced between deciding to make a mod for the vanilla game, Hyperspace, or as an addon to a major mod. This can be an issue for a beginner wanting to know what to keep track of, which this repository aims to solve. Contributions are welcome.

## So, what's the plan?

If you're reading this while this is the current version of the file, the plan is... to come up with a plan. The goal is to keep this repository cohesive, and there are different ways and decisions to make to achieve this, and decisions to make which will require collective agreement so this doesn't become a mess, or discourage people from contributing because we overplanned and made it a chore to change anything. Things to decide include:

- Defining the repository's scope. Vanilla modding and Hyperspace are definitely both things we want to cover. The same probably goes for FTL: Multiverse which introduces its own requirements. But how deep are we going? Other major mods besides MV? Spriting guides? Lua programming? Art style advice?
- How do we format the information we're compiling? Simply use markdown files? Github's wiki feature? Github pages? An autogenerated all-encompassing PDF of doom? There is definitely too much information to keep everything in a single document, but we also don't want to spread it into so many files that it becomes inconvenient to look up what is where.
- Writing tone. This is likely something we'll simply figure out and adjust as we go without requiring to formally define it, but it should be kept in mind regardless. Many people (hopefully) will be contributing to this or importing information from many different sources and we'll probably want to keep the tone uniform since it would be jarring to see a guide written in a formal encyclopedic tone followed up by the next relevant guide being emoji-filled chat logs, and the next guide after that an in-universe video guide from the perspective of a Hektar employee. This is a hyperbolic example, but you get my point.
- Licensing. I chose CC BY 4.0 for now. If people have concerns regarding relicensing future iterations of the repository (such as adding a non commercial or share alike clause), this can definitely be addressed.

I will start doing things the way I believe it makes sense (...once I've made up my mind, at least), but I don't plan on, nor would be good at, leading this repository's workflow and organizational procedures, so don't hesitate to make proposals (through issues or pull requests for example) or outright ask for direct access to the repository to get things done.